NIGERIAN BAR ASSOCIATION, [NBA] LAGOS BRANCH, THROUGH ITS HUMAN RIGHTS COMMITTEE EMBARKS ON A MASSIVE AND STRATEGIC DECONGESTION OF THE IKOYI CORRECTIONAL CENTRE IN PARTNERSHIP WITH MEGALECTRICS LIMITED: [NIGERIA'S FOREMOST RADIO STATION AND OWNERS OF BEAT FM, CLASSIC FM, NAIJA FM AND LAGOS TALKS 93.1 FM]  Lagos, Nigeria, February 11th , 2022 - The Nigerian Bar Association, with the Lagos Branch taking the forefront are set to promote Human Rights Advocacy, with a focus on curbing and reducing incidents of Human Rights Abuse in our environment.  In Partnership with MegaLectrics Limited, led by the "King of Radio", Chris Ubosi, and Lagos renowned Life Coach and Therapist, Tunji Babajide, (Lead Consultant/CEO of Awesome Effects Consulting), the NBA Lagos Human Rights Committee, led by its Chair lady Abiye-Tam George, has reeled out an impactful Human Rights Protection Initiative For Persons Imprisoned at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre, termed: THE NBA LAGOS WINGS OF FREEDOM.  Abiye Tam-George who is also the NBA Lagos Vice-Chair; had explained that the NBAL Wings of Freedom initiative, will be delivered in 3-Phases, applying the NBA Lagos conceptualized A.R.S. Solution. She also disclosed that the initiative will be coordinated by Mr. Vaughan Churchill, the NBA Lagos Human Rights Sub-Committee Chairman on Advocacy, Outreach & Sensitization.  According to Tam-George, the Part 1 scheduled to kick off from Monday, 14th February 2022 to Thursday, February 17th, will involve the "A" Solution on Detainees at the Ikoyi Prisons - otherwise tagged: PRISONERS AUDIT EXERCISE – and will consist of a 4-day visit to Ikoyi Correctional Centre by NBA Lagos, with a view to putting together a COMPREHENSIVE DATA BASE on the different categories of persons imprisoned at the Ikoyi Prisons.  She stated some key examples of these prisoners as; “awaiting trial detainees, indigent inmates who cannot pay up their meagre fines for their petty 2 crimes, and generally persons who are not meant to be detained but unjustly kept in prison for months going up to years, whose human and natural rights are under gross abuse.”  In further explaining the Prison Congestion and Prisoners Human Rights Protection and Enforcement Initiative, Tam-George explained that upon completion of the Prisoners Audit Exercise, the "R" Solution, Part 2, will be activated; aimed at securing the release and freedom of prisoners who should no longer linger in prison; as well as exonerate the innocent found to have been wrongly convicted, as compiled on the COMPREHENSIVE DATABASE.This she stated will be achieved through due court process and activated by the designated NBA Lagos Advocates of Freedom.  Part 2, she explained will commence from Monday 27th February 2022 to 31st March 2022, with the possibility of an extension, if need be. Abiye Tam-George had also pointed out that there are cases of inmates who have spent so long in prison sometimes spanning up to 5 to 7 years for no just reasons, only to gain their freedom eventually. She added that there were those wrongly convicted and imprisoned, but end up gaining their freedom further to a Supreme Court Judgement for instance, after perhaps spending over 20 years in prison.  According to the NBA Chair, these crop will require deep rehabilitation, comprising therapy and support to bringing them back to society, in restoration of their rights to life. For this reason, Abiye Tam-George explained that Part 3 of the NBAL Wings of Freedom, is the "S" Solution, which entails the provision of Support and Therapy sessions for persons released and set free under the Part 2 Exercise, in rebuilding their lives post-release.  According to Mr. Chris Ubosi, founder of MegaLectrics "it is indeed a great delight on my part and that of my company to be a key player and partner in this laudable human-based project aimed at changing lives and setting people free from bondage. I have in the past been personally involved in assisting inmates at the Ikoyi Correctional Centre in my little way, particularly those awaiting trial. To be involved with the NBA Lagos on this large scale is a heavenly blessing for us for I have always wanted to do more."  “We share the NBA Lagos dream and objective, to massively decongest the Ikoyi Correctional Centre Prisons, and we are set to lend more than a hand in assisting the support needed to give people back their rights to life” Ubosi had added. On his part, Life Coach, Therapist, Transitional and Transformational Coach, Tunji Babajide recalled that his straightforward response was “I am in” when he was called upon by the NBA Lagos Human Rights Committee leadership, to partner in the NBAL Wings of Freedom Project.  Babajide had emphasized that post-release life coaching and therapy, addressing the gross mental health issues of prisoners, was in fact crucial. Particularly for those who have spent so long in prison and are no longer in tune with life’s realities; and instead have a state of mind embedded in bitterness, hate, pain, revenge, regret, frustration, depression and the like. “Lack of such care usually results in such released persons being a liability to society and they do often end up committing worse crimes, only to return to prison or become drug addicts”.  According to the Chairman NBA Lagos Human Rights Sub-Committee on Advocacy, Outreach and Sensitization, Mr. Vaughan-Churchill, “the NBAL Wings of Freedom is part of the NBA Lagos IN PURSUIT OF INNOCENCE Project, introduced in December 2021, to curb and tackle incidents of human rights abuse; resulting in, and/or in relations to, persons being wrongly and unjustly imprisoned or persons lingering in prison without due cause, by setting out to release and free these persons and also exonerate the wrongly convicted through due process and advocating reforms of the criminal justice system, with a view to preventing future injustice.”